# Crowdfunding_ETL
This module includes an ETL mini project utilizing Python and PostgreSQL.

# Instructions:
For the ETL mini project, you will work with a partner to practice building an ETL pipeline using Python, Pandas, and either Python dictionary methods or regular expressions to extract and transform the data. Then create four CSV files and use the CSV file data to create an ERD and a table schema. Finally, upload the CSV file data into a Postgres database.

# Create the Category and Subcategory DataFrames
  1. Extract and transform the crowdfunding.xlsx Excel data to create a category DataFrame that has the following columns: "category_id" and "category". The "category_id" column should have entries going sequentially from "cat1" to "catn", where n is the number of unique categories.
  2. Export the category DataFrame as category.csv.
  3. Extract and transform the crowdfunding.xlsx Excel data to create a subcategory DataFrame that has the following columns: "subcategory_id" and "subcategory". Similarly, the "subcategory will have entries going sequentially from "subcat1" etc.
  4. Export the subcategory DataFrame as subcategory.csv.

# Create the Campaign DataFrame
  1. Extract and transform the crowdfunding.xlsx Excel data to create a campaign DataFrame.
  2. Rename The "blurb" column to "description"
  3. Convert the "goal" column to the float data type
  4. Convert the "pledged" column to the float data type
  5.  Rename the "launched_at" column to "launch_date" and convert the UTC times to the datetime format
  6.  Rename the "deadline" column to "end_date" and convert UTC times to the datetime format
  7.  Merge the category and subcategory dataframes with the campaingn dataframe on category and subcategory to inlude the "category_id" column and the "subcategory_id" column in the dataframe.
  8.  Ensure the new dataframe has the following columns: cf_id, contact_id, company_name, description, goal, pledged, outcome, backers_count, country, currency, launched_date, end_date, category_id, subcategory_id
  9.  Export the campaign DataFrame as campaign.csv

# Create the Contacts DataFrame
  1. Choose one of the following two options for extracting and transforming the data from the contacts.xlsx Excel data:
         - Option 1: Use Python dictionary methods.
         - Option 2: Use regular expressions.
  2. We chose Option 1.
  3. Import the contacts.xlsx file into a DataFrame.
  4. Iterate through the DataFrame, converting each row to a dictionary.
  5. Iterate through each dictionary, doing the following:
        - Extract the dictionary values from the keys by using a Python list comprehension.
        - Add the values for each row to a new list.
  6. Create a new DataFrame that contains the extracted data.
  7. Split each "name" column value into a first and last name, and place each in a new column.
  8. Clean and export the DataFrame as contacts.csv

# Create the Crowdfunding Database
  1. Inspect the four CSV files, and then sketch an ERD of the tables by using QuickDBDLinks
  2. Use the information from the ERD to create a table schema for each CSV file.
  3. Save the database schema as a Postgres file named crowdfunding_db_schema.sql
  4. Create a new Postgres database named crowdfunding_db.
  5. Using the database schema, create the tables in the correct order to handle the foreign keys.
  6. Verify the table creation by running a SELECT statement for each table.
  7. Import each CSV file into its corresponding SQL table.
  8. Verify that each table has the correct data by running a SELECT statement for each.

# Resources:
Module instructions for README: https://bootcampspot.instructure.com/courses/4737/assignments/68536?module_item_id=1162561
Data: Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC
